# Conclusion
-----
The application of this methodology within the Lagos Central revealed the flood risk areas and routing automation against such flooded areas via pgrouting database developed at the back-end. Flood risk modeling based on GIS and multi-criteria analysis is a valuable tool for assessing flood risk-prone areas and helping water management planning and decision-makers concentrate on particular areas to perform a more comprehensive flood risk assessment. This also plays an essential role for emergency responders and commuters in the case of an emergency to access the shortest route to any area within the Lagos Central, taking cognisance of the severely flooded areas. This simplified yet practical approach can also help to reduce the resource requirements for reasonably accurate assessments of the flood, time is taken for response and help in the delivery of effective response services. Some of the benefits of this method are its simplicity, ease of use, and low cost, allowing it to be extended to areas where there is a lack of accurate knowledge when the goal is to obtain a large-scale functional platform for emergency services for areas susceptible to ﬂooding.

Furthermore, the methodology presents an underlying schema for developing a routing system for flooding from start to finish. Also, the aim of this research and the subsequent findings are especially relevant to developing countries where access to technology (both the GIS software and hardware) is inhibited by its relatively high costs of acquisition and deployment. In particular, the implementation of the prototype reveals a lack of functionality in spatial analysis and other technical issues such as the Human-computer interface (HCI). However, it is apparent that open source web-based GIS holds a considerable potential, but it can practically be used as a complementary product to the proprietary vendor solution; also, the compliance with the standards, interoperability, and implementation of OGC specification via open source makes this web system an effective platform for providing access to geospatial information.

It is essential to acknowledge the value of open-source software for the developing world due to it’s very low or virtually zero cost, especially with the pgRouting database extension. Given the socio-economic conditions of the developing world, such solutions could help to bridge the digital divide by providing access to interoperable working GIS technology, road networks with general topology characteristics, and technology, which evolves rapidly and new releases of the open-source software are released regularly. Overall, the solution platform of the project does not provide a conclusive answer to all the posed problems and ideas in mind as a result of limited technical skills. However, this project highlights the variety of ways with which open-source data, open-source software, and web technology can provide extensible functionality to flood disaster services. This piece of work has contributed to the existing body of knowledge by taking it one step further in an attempt to bring together the open-source GIS technologies and emergency management into the developing part of the world.

For future work on the system includes initial flood representation and its extent being adapted using data-driven methods (Machine learning models) on the study area as well as on the current location of the device, so that they can be instantly made aware of by its user. Also, the functionality of the platform can be augmented with other services like Geonames, direction, and additional network analysis toolset that can be carried out with pgRouting extension or with routing API plug-ins. In prospects, the system can be readily employed in existing flood management schemes, e.g., those led by government agencies or non-profit organizations. The methodology utilized here can be further replicated in other areas within Africa.
